abash:embarrass.
abate:subside or moderate.
aberrant:abnormal or deviant.
abeyance:suspended action.
abject:wretched; lacking pride.
abjure:renounce upon oath; disavow.
ablution:washing or cleansing of the body, especially as part of a religious rite.
abnegation:a denial; a renunciation.
abortive:unsuccessful; fruitless.
abstemious:sparing in eating drinking; temperate.
abrogate:abolish.
accede:agree.
acclivity:sharp upslope of a hill.
accoutre:to outfit and equip, as for military duty.
acerbic:bitter or sour in nature.
acme:peak; pinnacle; highest point.
acrimony:bitter, sharp animosity, especially as exhibited in speech or behavior.
actuate:motivate.
acquiesce:to consent or comply passively or without protest.
acumen:mental keenness.
addle:muddle; drive crazy; become rotten.
adjuration:solemn urging.
admonition:gentle or friendly warning; counseling against a fault or error.
adroit:skillful.
aegis:shield; defense.
affected:artificial; pretended.
agrarian:pertaining to land or its cultivation.
alacrity:cheerful promptness.
allay:calm; pacify.
altruistic:charitable; exhibiting unselfish concern for others' welfare.
amalgamate:combine.
ambivalence:the state of having contradictory or conflicting emotional attitudes.
ameliorate:improve.
amorous:inclined to love; loving; affectionate.
amorphous:formless; lacking shape or definition.
anachronism:something or someone misplaced in time.
analogous:comparable.
anathema:greatly detested; seen to be accursed a damned.
ancillary:serving as an aid or accessory; auxiliary.
animadversion:critial remark.
animus:hostile feeling or intent.
anneal:reduce brittleness and improve toughness by heating and cooling.
annex:attach; take possession of.
anodyne:drug that relieves pain. opiate.
anomalous:abnormal; irregular.
antediluvian:antiquated; extremely ancient.
antipathy:aversion; dislike.
antithetical:sharply contrasted in character or purpose.
apathy:lack of caring; indifference.
aphorsim:a concise statement of a principle.
aplomb:poise; assurance.
apocryphal:spurious; not authentic; invented rather than true.
appellation:name; title.
apposite:appropriate; fitting.
apprise:inform.
approbation:approval.
apostate:one who has forsaken the faith, principles, or party, to which he previously adhered.
ardor:extreme passion or feeling.
arduous:hard.
arrogate:to assume, or claim as one's own; to take over without due cause.
artless:without guile; open and honest.
ascetic:practicing self-denial; austere.
assiduous:diligent.
assuage:ease or lessen (pain); satisfy (hunger); soothe (anger).
attenuate:make thinner; weaken or lessen (in density, force, degree).
audacious:daring; bold.
austere:forbiddingly stern; severely simple and unornamented.
autonomous:self-governing.
avaricious:greedy.
aver:assert confidently or declare; as used in law, state formally as a fact.
baleful:menacing, portending evil; having a harmful or malignant influence.
banal:hackneyed; commonplace; trite; lacking originality.
bate:to lessen by deducting or reducing.
bay:to bark, especially in a deep prolonged way.
beard:one who serves to divert suspicion or attention from another.
beget:to father; sire; to cause to exist or occur; produce.
belie:contradict; give a false impression.
beneficent:kindly; doing good.
bolster:support; reinforce.
bombastic:pompous; using inflated language.
boorish:rude; insensitive.
bourgeois:characteristic of the middle class.
brusque:short and abrupt.
bucolic:of or characteristic of the countryside or its people; rustic.
burgeon:grow forth; send out buds.
buttress:support; prop up.
cajole:to flatter; coax; deceive with flattery; entrap.
callous:insensitive; thick-skinned.
calumniate:to slander or defame.
capricious:unpredictable; fickle.
captious:marked by an often ill-natured inclination to stress faults and raise objections.
carp:to find fault with, complain constantly.
caterwaul:to make a harsh cry; to quarrel noisily.
caustic:burning; sarcastically biting.
censure:the act of blaming or condemning sternly.
chaff:to make fun of in a good natured way; tease.
chicanery:trickery; deception.
cleave:to adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.
cloying:to cause distaste or disgust by supplying with too much of something originally pleasant, especially something rich or sweet.
coagulate:thicken; congeal; clot.
coalesce:to grow together; to unite by growth into one body.
coda:concluding section of a musical or literary composition; rounds out/summarizes/concludes.
coddle:to treat indulgently; baby.
cogent:having the power to compel conviction or move the will.
comely:pleasing or agreeable to the sight.
commensurate:corresponding in extent, degree, amount, etc.; proportionate.
compendium:brief, comprehensive summary.
conciliatory:reconciling; soothing.
condone:overlook; forgive; give tacit approval; excuse.
confound:to confuse; to mingle and blend, so that different elements cannot be distinguished.
connotation:an implied or associated meaning.
consensus:agreement; accord; consent.
constancy:steadfastness, as in purpose or affection; faithfulness.
constituent:a person who is represented by another in a legislative assembly.
contention:claim; thesis.
contentious:quarrelsome.
contrite:penitent.
conundrum:riddle; difficult problem.
coterie:a set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social, literary, or other purposes; a clique.
cordial:courteous and gracious.
corporeal:having a body; pertaining to the body.
cozen:to deceive; to cheat; to act deceitfully.
craven:cowardly.
credence:acceptance as true or valid; belief; recommendation.
cronyism:favoritism shown to friends and associates.
cupidity:inordinate desire for wealth.
curmudgeon:a grouch. a mean-spirited, irascible person.
cursory:performed with haste and scant attention to detail.
daunt:intimidate; frighten.
decorum:propriety; orderliness and good taste in manners.
decry: to condemn openly.
defeatist:expecting or anticipating loss.
deference:courteous regard for another’s wish.
delectation:delight; enjoyment.
denigrate:blacken.
denouement:the final outcome of the main dramatic complication in a literary work.
dereliction:neglect or abandonment. a failure to perform a duty.
deride:ridicule.
derision:contemptuous or jeering laughter; ridicule; a laughingstock.
derivative:unoriginal; obtained from another source.
desiccate:dry up.
despondency:loss of hope and cessation of effort; discouragement; depression or dejection of the mind.
despotic:tyrannical; having the qualities of an absolute or irresponsible ruler or sovereign.
desultory:aimless; haphazard; digressing at random.
diatribe:bitter scolding; invective.
dichotomy:split; branching into two parts(especially contradictory ones).
diffidence:lack of self-confidence; shyness, timidity.
diffuse:wordy; rambling; spread out(like a gas).
digression:wandering away from the subject.
dirge:lament with music.
disabuse:correct a false impression; undeceive.
discerning:mentally quick and observant; having insight.
discomfit:upset, frustrate, make uncomfortable.
disconcert:to make uncomfortable, upset; to disturb (someone's) self-possession; to confuse.
discordant:not harmonious; conflicting.
discrepancy:lack of consistency; difference.
discrete:separate; unconnected; consisting of distinct parts.
disingenuous:lacking genuine candor; insincere.
disinterested:unprejudiced.
disparate:basically different; unrelated.
dissemble:disguise; pretend.
dissolution:disintegration; looseness in morals.
dissonance:discord; opposite of harmony.
dissuasion:a communication that dissuades you; persuasion not to do something.
distend:expand; swell out.
distill:purify; refine; concentrate.
divest:strip; deprive.
divination:the art or practice that seeks to foresee or foretell future events or discover hidden knowledge.
dogmatic:opinionated; arbitrary; doctrinal.
doleful:causing grief or affliction; full of grief.
dour:marked by sternness or harshness; silently ill humored; gloomy.
doyen:a man who is the eldest or senior member of a group.
dulcet:pleasing to the ear; melodious.having a soothing, agreeable quality.
earnest:marked by or showing deep sincerity or seriousness.
ebullient:showing excitement; overflowing with enthusiasm.
eclectic:selective;  composed of elements drawn from disparate sources.
efficacy:power to produce desired effect.
effigy:a dummy or artifact for public observation. if representing someone hated, it might be burned.
effrontery:impudence; shameless boldness; sheer nerve; presumptuousness.
effusive:unrestrained or excessive in emotional expression; gushy; profuse; overflowing.
elegy:poem or song expressing lamentation.
elicit:to bring about or draw forth, as in an emotional reaction.
elucidate:to make clear or plain.
emaciate:to become or to cause to become very thin, as when starving.
embroil:to implicate in confusion; to complicate; to jumble.
empathic:showing concern or shared feeling.
empirical:based on experience.
emulate:imitate; rival.
endemic:prevailing among a specific group of people or in a specific area or country.
enervate:weaken.
engender:cause; produce.
enmity:deep-seated, often mutual hatred.
entreat:to make an earnest request of.
ephemeral:short-lived; fleeting.
equable:not easily disturbed; serene; even; uniform.
equanimity:calmness of temperament; composure.
equivocal:open to two or more interpretations; intended to mislead; uncertain nature or significance.
equivocate:lie; mislead; attempt to conceal the truth.
erudite:learned; scholarly.
esoteric:hard to understand; known only to the chosen few.
espouse:to take up as a supporter.
ethereal:of or relating to the regions beyond the earth; lacking material substance.
eulogy:expression of praise, often on the occasion of someone’s death.
euphemism:mild expression in place of an unpleasant one.
evanescent:tending to vanish like vapor.
excoriate:abrade; to censure strongly; denounce.
exculpate:clear from blame.
exigency:urgent situation; pressing needs or demands; state of requiring immediate attention.
expiation:atonement, the making of amends.
expository:offering an explanation of something.
extol:praise highly, glorify.
extrapolation:projection; conjecture.
facetious:joking (often inappropriately); a side.
fallow:left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated.
farcical:ludicrous; ridiculously clumsy; absurd.
fatuous:brainless; inane; foolish, yet smug.
fawning:trying to please by behaving obsequiously, flattering, or cringing.
faze:to disturb; disconcert.
feckless:irresponsible; weak or ineffective.
fecundity:the quality or power of producing abundantly; fruitfulness or fertility.
feint:a false show; a sham.
felicitous:apt; suitably expressed; well chosen.
fervor:glowing ardor; intensity of feeling.
fetid:stinking, especially from decay.
firebrand:a person who stirs up trouble or kindles a revolt. A piece of burning wood.
flag:droop; grow feeble.
florid:flushed with rosy colory. very ornate.
flout:reject; mock; show contempt for.
foment:stir up; instigate.
forbear:to refrain from; resist. to desist from; cease.
forestall:prevent by taking action in advance.
frugality:thrift; economy.
fulsome:offending or disgusting by over fullness, excess, or grossness; cloying.
furtive:stolen; obtained or characterized by stealth; sly; secret.
futile:useless; hopeless; ineffectual.
gadfly:a person who annoys others; a fly found around horses.
gainsay:deny.
garrulous:loquacious; wordy; talkative.
genuflect:to bend the knee in prayer.
glean:to pick up or gather anything by degrees.
glib:done in a smooth or offhand manner.
goad:urge on.
gossamer:any very thin gauzelike fabric; also, a thin waterproof material.
gouge:overcharge.
grandiloquent:pompous; bombastic; using high-sounding language.
guileless:without deceit.
harangue:long, passionate, and vehement speech.
hauteur:haughtiness in bearing and attitude; arrogance.
heretical:of, relating to, or characterized by departure from accepted beliefs or standards.
hoary:white or gray from age.
humdrum:lacking variety or excitement, dull.
hyperbole:exaggeration; overstatement.
iconoclastic:attacking cherished traditions.
idolatry:worship of idols; excessive admiration.
imbroglio:a confused mass; an intricate or complicated situation.
impassive:without feeling;  imperturbable; stoical.
impenitent:not penitent or remorseful; impervious to moral persuasion.
impetuous:marked by impulsive anger or violence as in a hasty and forceful expression of anger.
imperious:commanding; domineering or arrogant; urgent, imperative.
imperturbable:clam; placid.
implacable:incapable of being pacified.
impudent:bold and sassy; marked by disregard for others.
inchoate:recently begun; rudimentary; elementary.
incongruity:lack of harmony; absurdity.
indelicate:improper, tactless, unseemly.
indigence:poverty.
inexorable:not capable of being persuaded by entreaty.
ingenuous:naïve and trusting; young; unsophisticated.
inimical:injurious or harmful in effect; adverse; unfriendly.
innocuous:harmless.
inscrutable:unable to be understood; unfathomable; mysterious.
insensible:unconscious; unresponsive.
insipid:lacking in flavor; dull.
insularity:narrow-mindedness; isolation.
intercede:to intervene between parties with a view to reconciling differences; interpose.
intersperse:scatter amongst, to place at intervals inside something else.
intractable:unruly; stubborn; unyielding.
intransigence:refusal of any compromise; stubbornness.
intrinsic:of or relating to the essential nature of a thing; inherent.
inured:accustomed; hardened.
invective:abuse.
inveigh:to complain bitterly or vehemently or criticize strongly.
irascible:irritable; easily angered.
irresolute:uncertain how to act; weak.
jingoism:Extreme nationalism characterized especially by a belligerent foreign policy; chauvinistic patriotism.
laconic:brief and to the point.
largess:a gift or money given (as for service or out of benevolence); usually given ostentatiously.
lassitude:languor; weariness.
latent:potential but undeveloped; dormant; hidden.
laud:praise.
levity:lack of seriousness or steadiness; frivolity.
libel:printed or spoken statements that damage someone's reputation.
lionize:to esteem highly, treat as if of high importance.
lissome:thin and flexible; moving with grace.
louche:not reputable or decent.
lucid:easily understood; clear; intelligible.
lugubrious:mournful, dismal, or gloomy, especially to an exaggerated or ludicrous degree.
luminous:shinning; issuing light.
maceration:softening due to soaking or steeping; extreme leanness (usually caused by starvation or disease).
machinations:complex dealings and schemes.
malady:a disease, disorder, or ailment.
malingerer:one who feigns illness to escape duty.
martinet:a rigid military disciplinarian.
maudlin:effusively or tearfully sentimental.
mendacious:lying; habitually dishonest.
mendicant:a beggar.
mitigate:appease; moderate.
mollify:soothe.
mores:customs; habits.
moribund:approaching death; about to die.
morose:ill-humored; sullen; melancholy.
mundane:worldly as opposed to spiritual; everyday.
nebulous:vague, hazy, indistinct.
nepotism:favoritism shown to relatives or close friends by those in power
noisome:unpleasant, harmful, offensive.
nomenclature:a system of naming, especially one used in a technical discussion.
obdurate:stubborn.
obfuscate:to make so confused or opaque as to be difficult to perceive or understand.
obloquy:a strongly condemnatory utterance; the condition of one that is discredited; bad repute.
obsequious:slavishly attentive; servile; sycophantic.
obviate:make unnecessary; get rid of.
occlude:shut; close.
officious:meddlesome; excessively pushy in offering one’s services.
onerous:burdensome.
opprobrium:infamy; vilification.
opulent:glamorous, dazzling, displaying almost excessive wealth.
ordinal:being of a specified position in a numbered series.
ostensible:appearing as such but not necessarily so.
ostentatious:showy; pretentious; trying to attract attention.
pallid:having an abnormally pale or wan complexion.
paragon:model of perfection.
parsimony:unusual or excessive frugality; extreme economy or stinginess.
partisan:one-sided; prejudiced; committed to a party.
pastiche:a composition made up of bits from various sources.
pastoral:of the countryside, traditional, peaceful.
pathological:pertaining to disease.
paucity:scarcity.
pauper:one who is extremely poor.
pecuniary:relating to money.
pedantic:showing off learning; bookish.
pejorative:A disparaging or belittling word or expression.
penchant:strong inclination; liking.
penury:severe poverty; stinginess.
perennial:something long-lasting.
perfidious:treacherous; disloyal.
perfunctory:superficial; not thorough; lacking interest, care, or enthusiasm.
perigee:the lowest or closest point; the point of a satellite's orbit that is nearest to earth.
pernicious:highly injurious or destructive.
peroration:the concluding part of a discourse and especially an oration; a highly rhetorical speech.
perspicacious:having the power of seeing clearly; quick-sighted; sharp of sight.
perspicacity:good judgment, acute understanding.
pertinence:having logical precise relevance to the matter at hand.
pervasive:spread throughout.
phlegmatic:calm; not easily disturbed.
piety:devoutness; reverence for God.
pink:to cut.
pithy:precisely meaningful; forceful and brief.
piquant:agreeably stimulating to the palate; esp. spicy.
placate:pacify; conciliate.
platitude:trite remark; commonplace statement.
plummet:fall sharply.
polemic:art or practice of argument and disputation.
polyglot:one who speaks a number of languages.
ponderous:having great weight; lacking grace or fluency; labored and dull.
pragmatic:practical (as opposed to idealistic).
precarious:uncertain; risky.
precipitate:rash; premature; hasty; sudden.
presumptuous:arrogant; taking liberties.
preternatural:existing outside of nature; exceeding what is natural or regular.
prevaricate:lie.
probity:uprightness; incorruptibility.
prodigal:wasteful; reckless with money.
profuse:abundant and given freely. extravagantly generous.
proliferate:grow rapidly; spread; multiply.
propensity:natural inclination.
propitiate:appease.
propriety:fitness; correct conduct.
proscribe:ostracize; banish; outlaw.
protean:taking on different forms.
puissant:power, might.
pungent:causing a sharp sensation, as of the taste, smell, or feeling; biting; sharply painful.
pusillanimous:lacking courage; cowardly.
qualified:limited; restricted.
quiescent:at rest; dormant; temporarily inactive.
quisling:a traitor.
quotidian:everyday; commonplace; recurring daily.
rapt:to snatch.
rarefied:made less dense (of a gas).
raze:to level to the ground; demolish.
rebuke:to criticize or reprove sharply; reprimad; to check or repress.
recalcitrant:obstinately stubborn; determined to resist authority; unruly.
recidivism:a tendency to relapse into a previous condition or mode of behavior especially crime.
recondite:abstruse; profound; secret.
rectitude:moral uprightness; righteousness. being correct in judgment. quality of being straight.
refractory:stubborn; unmanageable.
rejoinder:an answer to a reply.
relegate:banish to an inferior position; delegate; assign.
reproach:express disapproval or disappointment.
reprobate:person hardened in sin, devoid of a sense of decency.
repudiate:disown; disavow.
rescind:cancel.
restive:resisting control; difficult to control.
reticent:reserved; uncommunicative; inclined to silence.
revile:to assail with abusive language; vituperate.
roused:to stir up; to become aroused.
rueful:inspiring pity; feeling or expressing pain or sorrow for sins or offenses.
salacious:having a propensity to be lustful or lecherous.
salient:projecting or jutting beyond a line or surface; protruding; strikingly conspicuous.
salubrious:healthful.
sanguine:of the color of blood; red.
scurry:hasten away, move along rapidly.
secede:to withdraw from an organization.
secrete:hide away or cache; produce and release a substance into an organism.
secular:not sacred, not related to the church.
sententious:full of meaning, terse and energetic in expression.
sentient:having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception.
sere:withered; dry.
sheathe:to put in a case; to enclose or cover with.
slake:to satisfy (a craving); quench.
solicitous:worried, concerned.
somnolent:sleepy; drowsy.
soporific:sleep-causing; marked by sleepiness.
specious:seemingly reasonable but incorrect; misleading (often intentionally).
staid:sober; grave; sedate.
stint:be thrifty; set limits.
stipulate:make express conditions, specify.
stolid:dull; impassive.
strident:loud, harsh, grating, or shrill; discordant.
strut:pompous walk; supporting bar.
supercilious:feeling or showing haughty disdain.
supposition:hypothesis; surmise.
sybarite:A person devoted to pleasure and luxury; a voluptuary.
tacit:understood; not put into words.
taciturn:habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt at talk or speak.
tangential:peripheral; only slightly connected; digressing.
tantamount:equivalent in value, signification, or effect.
tawdry:showy, but without taste or elegance.
tempestuous:stormy.
tensile:capable of extension.
tenuous:thin; rare; slim.
tepid:moderately warm; lukewarm.
tertiary:third level.
tessellated:set in a mosaic pattern of small blocks.
tether:a rope, chain, or similar restraint for holding one, especially an animal in place.
tirade:extended scolding; denunciation; harangue.
torpor:lethargy; sluggishness; dormancy.
tortuous:winding; full of curves.
tractable:docile; easily managed.
transient:of short duration, temporary, fleeting.
travail:work especially of a painful or laborious nature.
trifle:something insignificant, of no consequence, of little meaning.
truculence:aggressiveness; ferocity.
tyro:a beginner in learning.
tutelage:the act of guarding or protecting; guardianship.
turgid:swelled; swollen; bloated; inflated.
unkempt:not combed, disheveled.
urbanity:polished courtesy; elegance of manner
vacillate:waver; fluctuate.
vehement:acting with great force; furious; violent.
veldt:Any of the open grazing areas.
venerate:revere.
veracious:truthful.
vernacular:the local language of a place.
vestige:a visible trace, evidence, or sign of something that once existed.
vexillology:the study of flags.
virtue:any positive characteristic; bravery; daring; spirit; valor.
vituperative:abusive; scolding.
voluble:marked by a ready flow of speech; fluent.
voracious:greedy in eating, eager to devour and swallow.
welter:turmoil; bewildering jumble.
whimsical:capricious; fanciful.
witticism:a clever or funny remark.
wizened:dried; shriveled; withered.
zealot:fanatic; person who show excessive zeal.
